hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
so the nine point seven inch iPad pro
has a lot in common with the iPad air 2
there's a lot of new features but it
also costs quite a bit more so let's
take a look at them to see if it's worth
the extra money
aesthetically they look pretty similar
they have the same casing the same bezel
same home button the same first-gen
fingerprint sensor same thickness same
weight even the battery life is the same
you can get the nine point seven inch
iPad pro in rose gold if that's your
thing but the most notable differences
on the outside are really just the two
extra speakers the smart connection and
the camera bump on the inside we have a
more powerful CPU he uses the same chip
as the bigger iPad pro but that one had
four gigs of RAM this has two gigs like
the iPad air 2
now we're not powering as many pixels as
the big iPad pro so the reduced ram
doesn't affect performance running
benchmarks you can see that it scores
way better than the iPad air 2 but when
I use it I mean it feels a little faster
it's just that the benchmarks made it
seem like it would be a huge performance
bump and it's not using it with split
screen it has a more noticeable
performance increase the iPad air 2
still doesn't feel slow or anything but
the nine point seven inch iPad pro has a
little more punch there still isn't an
app that would let me edit one of my
YouTube videos on the iPad I mean I
would love to I think the processor on
the iPad pro could handle it but the app
still aren't there and I feel like
that's the case for a lot of pro users
we're still waiting for those apps the
nine point seven inch iPad pro can also
use the smart keyboard and the Apple
pencil so this smart keyboard is smaller
and I thought would be cramped but it's
not the thing is I don't love the typing
experience the key travels a little too
short for me and it's missing things
that third-party keyboards have like
shortcut keys and backlighting the Apple
pencil is one of my favorite input
devices on any platform and it works
exactly the same way as the big iPad pro
very responsive tilt sensitive shading
nearly lag free it's awesome so
keyboards on iPads aren't a new thing
but if you want to draw or if you want
to have prop
pen input the 9.7 inch ipad is your
better choice the iPad air 2 has a pair
of speakers that sound okay like the
bass isn't really there and both the
mids and highs sound a little muddy
their stereo but since the speakers are
on one side you never get proper stereo
sound in landscape mode the 9.7 inch
iPad pro has four speakers they're
louder they create a more immersive
experience but most importantly they
just sound better much cleaner mids and
highs and pretty nice bass it doesn't
sound as good as the twelve point nine
inch iPad pro and still very respectable
there's a new screen the resolution is
the same as the iPad air 2 but it's
improved and basically every other way
it has a professional-grade color gamut
the same DCI p3 that's on the 5k iMac
essentially it displays more of the
colors that the human eye can perceive
so it's supposedly 25% more colors which
sounds like a lot and I can see that the
colors look a little richer without
being oversaturated but it's a pretty
mild improvement it also features the
new true tone display where sensors
around the screen detect the lighting in
your environment and then it adjusts the
screen to have like a warmer or cooler
tint it's supposed to mimic how ambient
light reflects off a piece of paper I've
been using tablets for years and I've
never wanted this feature before but now
that I've used this I like it a lot just
be sure to turn it off if you're doing
color accurate work the screen is also
20% brighter it's immediately noticeable
and that's always a welcome upgrade in
my books and lastly there's a new type
of anti reflective coating so the iPad
air 2 already had some kind of anti
reflection but this new one is supposed
to be better by 40% so combined with the
brighter panel it's noticeably better
for outdoor use now overall it's nicely
improved screen but the iPad air 2
display still looks really awesome
it has a great rear facing camera now 12
megapixels it's the same as the iPhone 6
and it can take 4k videos now it also
has a cam
bump but somehow it doesn't wobble at
all when it's lying flat the more
interesting camera to me is the
front-facing camera because a lot of
people use their iPads for FaceTime and
if you do you'll appreciate this
upgraded camera the iPad air had a 1.2
megapixel camera
this one's 5 megapixels and the video
quality just looks so much better it
also has that retina flash for selfies
now the reason why I made this video is
because of pricing the iPad air 2 is
$400 for the 16 gig model the 9.7 inch
iPad pro is $600 for the 32 gig model
now if you take storage differences into
account it's like $150 price increase
but it's still much cheaper than the
$800 big iPad pro so is it worth it see
the nine point seven inch iPad pro still
can't replace a laptop for most people
but it's a powerful tablet with some new
features the usage experience is pretty
similar to an iPad air 2 unless you're
using the Apple pencil and that's kind
of where the decision lies once you buy
the Apple pencil and you've paid the
price premium for the pro you're looking
at like a $250 premium over the iPad air
2 that's a pretty big amount so if
you're a hundred percent sure you're
going to make good use of that alpha
pencil then I'd say go for it the iPad
pro is awesome but if you're not I'd
stick with the iPad air 2 it's still a
really good tablet that's the end of
this video I hope you guys liked it give
me some thumbs if you liked it and some
subs if you loved it it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time
you